---
layout: post
title: Welcome to the Giving Jar Blog!
subtitle: Discover more about Giving Jar, nonprofits, and charitable giving
permalink: /welcome/
snippet: >
    Hopefully you wandered onto this page to learn more about Giving Jar and how it will improve charitable giving online. Good news, this blog is exactly the right place to learn such things! Read on to see what Giving Jar is all about.
---

Hopefully you wandered onto this page to learn more about Giving Jar and how it will improve charitable giving online.

Good news, this blog is exactly the right place to learn such things!

## What is Giving Jar?

Giving Jar is a platform that makes it convenient for individuals and communities to donate to the charity of their choice online.

### Discover

According to [GuideStar][1], one of the largest nonprofit databases in the world, there are over 1.8 million charitable organizations in the United States alone.

With so many charities to consider, finding the one that matches your own ideals can be challenging and time-consuming. From a nonprofit's perspective, trying to spread the word about your mission when there are so many other charities... well, it can be difficult to be heard.

Giving Jar wants to help charities be discovered so it is easy for people to donate to organizations that match their passions.

This blog is just one example. If you're interested in learning about unsung nonprofits, come back occasionally and catch up on the charity spotlights. Better yet, if you sign up for the [Giving Jar newsletter][2] you can read the spotlights before they are posted to this blog!

### Decide

Earlier this year Giving Jar sent a survey to 110 individuals online all over the country. The result was clear: 86% of those surveyed want to be able to choose the charity that receives their donations.

Even without those survey results, it is important to Giving Jar that anyone using it should be able to choose where their donations go. Giving Jar helps you find the right charity and then makes sure you can donate to them when you're ready.

### Donate

The final goal of Giving Jar is to offer a consistent way for you to donate. Suppose you want to give to five different organizations. Instead of visiting five different websites, you can go to [Giving Jar][2] and donate to all five from one place. Or even better yet, why go anywhere? What if Giving Jar could come to you?

Giving Jar would like to become a platform where donors don't have to go out of their way to visit Giving Jar to make donations. Wouldn't it be nice if you could just go about your business and opportunities to donate would instead present themselves to you?

## How Will Giving Jar Improve Charitable Giving Online?

It's fairly common to be presented with opportunities to donate when we're not online. Nonprofits host fundraisers in high traffic public places all the time, employers sponsor and support charitable events and allow donations to be made right out of your paycheck, and some businesses offer customers the opportunity to donate their spare change when making a purchase.

These ways to donate are great because they remove the burden of proactive donation from the donor. Those techniques are tough to emulate online, though. Someone with the correct technical knowhow has to build them before they are even possible. Think about it this way: you can't take your kids and setup a table to ask for donations at your favorite online store unless someone with years of experience writes software that lets you.

Taking the burden off of the online donor is difficult, but it is possible. Giving Jar wants to write that software for you and for everyone.

## Where to Begin?

Giving Jar is being built as a platform for discovering charities, deciding where you want to give, and making donations without having to go out of your way to do so.

Eventually this platform will allow anyone to easily build upon it and offer new ways to encourage charitable giving. That's a lot of software to build, though, and Giving Jar doesn't want to hold up new ways to donate any longer than is necessary.

So the platform will be built piece by piece. This puts value in the hands of donors as early as possible and helps Giving Jar create a stable foundation to its donation platform.

## Get Involved!

If Giving Jar sounds interesting to you, there are many ways you can support it.

The best way is to subscribe to the [Giving Jar newsletter][2]. When you subscribe, you will get previews of upcoming content such as charity spotlights and the occasional opportunity to provide feedback about what you would like to see in Giving Jar. Don't worry, we don't send a large number of emails, we won't give away your email address, and you can unsubscribe whenever you want.

There are other ways to follow Giving Jar's progress too. Follow Giving Jar on [Twitter][3] or [Facebook][4], add our [RSS feed][5] to your favorite reader, or come back and read the [blog][6] once in awhile.

And if you really like what you see, tell a friend!



[1]: http://www.guidestar.org/NonprofitDirectory.aspx "GuideStar Nonprofit Directory"
[2]: //givingjar.org "Giving Jar"
[3]: https://twitter.com/givingjar "Giving Jar on Twitter"
[4]: https://www.facebook.com/givingjarorg "Giving Jar on Facebook"
[5]: //blog.givingjar.org/feed.xml "Giving Jar Blog RSS Feed"
[6]: //blog.givingjar.org "Giving Jar Blog"
